[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: It's December,
Christmas time.
I thought we'd talk about
some of the features that
are coming in 2018, and
I'll try and describe it
to you in two minutes.
But you can ask the questions.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: I want to talk
about the Web Locks API.
Go.
SURMA: Is that like warlocks?
JAKE: No.
SURMA: So it's like--
like mutex locks and stuff?
JAKE: Yes, correct.
SURMA: What-- what is--
what-- how?
JAKE: Right, OK.
So the idea is in a page or
in worker, you would say,
I want a lock named bluh.
And you can give it a name.
Any name you want,
it's just a string.
All right, and then it will
wait until nothing else
has a lock of that name open.
And then once it's open,
you get a call back.
And you'd usually use
an async function here
because it's expected
to return a promise.
And you, like,
return the promise--
resolve the promise, like
return from the async function
once you have done the work that
you were wanting to look for.
SURMA: OK.
And so that lock is
shared across the origin,
I would presume?
JAKE: Yes.
The whole origin.
Yeah.
SURMA: OK, so I mean, we have
locks on shared [INAUDIBLE],,
right?
JAKE: We have atomics.
SURMA: The atomic things--
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: --which you can wait and
lock-- you can build a lock.
JAKE: Yes.
But you cannot wait on the
main thread with an atomic.
SURMA: True.
JAKE: You can only
wait on a worker,
whereas with this it's
an asynchronous thing.
Whoo.
So it can work on
a page as well.
And it also lets you
do shared locks, right?
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: Right, so
in a shared mode,
you can say, like, I
want a lock on this.
But I'm prepared to share
with other shared things.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: But then when a
non-shared thing comes along
for the same name, it has to
wait for all of the shared
things to finish.
SURMA: So this is like--
JAKE: And it's like
an exclusive lock.
SURMA: --like read/write mutex,
where lots of people can read,
but only one person can write.
JAKE: Like read and write stuff.
And it means you can kind of
do some of this similar stuff,
with like local
storage or with books.
You run into problems
if a tab crashes,
or if it closes before it can--
SURMA: Ah, the cleanup.
JAKE: --create a lock.
Whereas this will all
happen because it's--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: Yeah, OK.
JAKE: There you go.
Yeah, are you convinced?
Is that signed off?
Can we have it now?
SURMA: I'll think about it.
JAKE: OK, fair enough.
We have three seconds to go.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Architecture, that's buildings.
It's not [INAUDIBLE] the
web, mate, you got confused.
SURMA: Well, the
thing is that lots
of other fields like enterprise
engineering and gaming
have, like, these architectural
patterns when they build, like,
really complex things.
JAKE: Nope, fields
don't have architecture,
you're thinking of cities.